= Autotest Growl

* Author: Sven Schwyn (http://www.bitcetera.com)
* Homepage: http://www.bitcetera.com/products/autotest-growl
* Issues and forum: https://forge.bitcetera.com/projects/show/autotest-growl

== DESCRIPTION:

This gem aims to improve support for Growl notifications by autotest. It
comes  with a nice and colorful icon sets and supports several testing
frameworks on different platforms.

Furthermore the terminal running autotest is cleared on every cycle (unless
configured otherwise). Don't worry though, it's still possible to scroll up
to see the output of previous cycles - at least when using the Terminal.app
bundled with Mac OS X.

== REQUIREMENTS:

* any ZenTest compatible test suite
* Growl >= 1.1.5 on Mac OS X   --OR--
* Growl for Windows >= 2.0b18 on Windows   --OR--
* libnotify >= 0.4.5 on Linux

== INSTALL:

First of all, you have to decide whether you want to use the comprehensive
ZenTest gem or the lightweight autotest-standalone gem and install either 
of them. (See "Autotest" below for more on this.)

  sudo gem install ZenTest   --OR--
  sudo gem install autotest-standalone

Now install this gem:

  sudo gem install autotest-growl

Then add the following line to your ~/.autotest file:

  require 'autotest/growl'

Growl must be installed on your computer. You can download it from:

Mac OS X: http://growl.info
Windows:  http://growlforwindows.com

On Linux you can use libnotify instead, however, some of the features 
won't work. The binary notify-send must be in your PATH:

Linux:    http://www.galago-project.org

If you like this gem, please consider to recommend me on Working with
Rails, thank you!

http://workingwithrails.com/recommendation/new/person/11706-sven-schwyn

== AUTOTEST:

You can use any ZenTest-compatible test suite with this gem, which basically
boils down to either of the following two sets of gems.

Comprehensive test suite by Ryan Davis:
* ZenTest
* autotest-rails (for Ruby on Rails compatibility)

Lightweight test suite by Michael Grosser:
* autotest-standalone
* autotest-rails-pure (for Ruby on Rails compatibility)
* zentest-without-autotest (for full ZenTest compatibility)

Note: Due to a naming disagreement, starting from version 4.4.6 the autotest
gem is no longer a lightweight fork but only an empty gem which requires 
ZenTest. Switch to the autotest-standalone gem if you want to stick with the
lightweight approach.

== CONFIGURATION:

=== Priorities

The priority of a notification is set according to the actual result so you
can  configure Growl to style the notifications differently based on these
priorities:

* 2 for error or failed
* 0 for info
* -1 for pending, undefined or unknown
* -2 for passed

=== Icons

Two icon sets are bundled with this gem:

* ruby (default): The original Ruby logo dressed in traffic light colors.
* ampelmaennchen: The famous traffic light man from the now extinct GDR.

To choose an icon set, add the following to your ~/.autotest:

  Autotest::Growl::image_dir = 'ampelmaennchen'

Using your own icon set is pretty simple. Images should be named as
follows: passed.png, pending.png, failed.png, error.png and info.png.

Place these images in a directory of your choosing and specify its
location in your ~/.autotest, example:

  Autotest::Growl::image_dir = File.join(ENV['HOME'], '.autotest-growl')

=== Don't Clear the Terminal

Add the following to your ~/.autotest if you don't want the terminal to
be cleared before running a test:

  Autotest::Growl::clear_terminal = false

=== Hide the Label

If you prefer the Growl notifications not to show labels such as "LABEL:
All tests have passed", add the following to your ~/.autotest:

  Autotest::Growl::hide_label = true

=== One Notification per Run

Allow only one test and one feature notification per run by adding the
following to your ~/.autotest:

  Autotest::Growl::one_notification_per_run = true

=== Make Failure and Error Notifications Sticky

If you don't want to miss any failure or error notifications while you 
get a cup of coffee, make them stay on your display until you explicitly
click them away. Simply add the following to your ~/.autotest:

  Autotest::Growl::sticky_failure_notifications = true

=== Custom Options

You can pass any custom option to the Growl binary. For instance to 
set a non-standard port for remote notifications, add the following to
your ~/.autotest:

  Autotest::Growl::custom_options = '--port 54321'

=== Show Modified Files

Add the following to your ~/.autotest if you would like to receive a Growl
notification listing the files modified before tests are re-run.

  Autotest::Growl::show_modified_files = true

== TROUBLESHOOTING:

=== Autotest Binary Not Present

Make sure you have either the ZenTest gem or the autotest-standalone gem
installed. This dependency has been dropped as of autotest-growl-0.2.5 in
order to allow any compatible test suite.

=== Unreliable Growl Notifications on Mac OS X

Under some circumstances, Growl notifications seem to be swallowed randomly
on Mac OS X. If this happens to you, try the following.

Add this to your ~/.autotest:

  Autotest::Growl::remote_notification = true
  
Now open "System Preferences -> Growl -> Network" and set the checkboxes
"Listen for incoming notifications" and "Allow remote application 
registration”. Try whether remote notifications work with the following
test:

  find /Library/Ruby /usr -name growlnotify -exec {} -H localhost -n autotest -m ok \;
  
If you get a NSPortTimeoutException, you should restart Growl and check
whether a firewall is blocking the connection. Once the notification is 
displayed, go back to the System Preferences and disable the checkbox
"Allow remote application registration" again.

=== Duplicate Notifications

Some people reported problems with duplicate notifications on some versions
of Mac OS X 10.5. If you experience this oddity, add the following to your
~/.autotest:

  Autotest::Growl::custom_options = '-w'

=== No Notifications on Mac OS X 10.5

If you are still on Leopard and notifications don't work for you, get your
hands dirty and remove the "-n Autotest" argument from growl.rb. Make sure
you submit a bug or comment on a related and existing bug, too. 

== DEVELOPMENT:

You can install the bleeding edge version as follows:

  git clone git://github.com/svoop/autotest-growl.git
  cd autotest-growl
  bundle install
  rake build
  rake install

Please submit issues on:

https://forge.bitcetera.com/projects/show/autotest-growl

To contribute code, fork the project on Github, add your code and submit a
pull request:

http://github.com/guides/fork-a-project-and-submit-your-modifications

== CONTRIBUTIONS:

Thanks to the following folks who have contributed to this project:

* Michael Moen
* Graham Savage
* Karl O'Keeffe
* Konstantin Haase
* J. Edward Dewyea
* Martin Vielsmaier
* Charles Roper
* Ben Ritcey
* Patrick Aikens

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2010 Sven Schwyn

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
